Memorandum
To: Dr. Christopher Lam
From: Sridhar Rao
Date: November 9, 2015
Subject: Tool justification
I have a background as a Journalist, more specifically as a Mass Media student. I understand the importance of editing videos since I’ve done quite a lot of that. I’ve primarily used Sony Vegas Pro 10 for my video editing back in undergraduate, but it is too expensive a software for an average technical communicator (with no industry backing) to buy.
I picked video editing because sometimes, a manual isn’t enough on guiding people on how to use a software. It is essential to show them, first-hand, how a video should be edited. Video-editing software can be confusing. There’s so many tools that exist within a video editing software bundle that anyone can get easily befuddled with. Sony Vegas Pro was quite confusing when I started learning it.
Technical communication involves showing people how things work, and the scope of my project is to show how video-editing works. Tentatively, I have picked CyberLink PowerDirector as my software of choice for editing videos, since it is a slightly more advanced software. I am tentative because I’ll have to learn the basics of the software myself, but then I can put my own touches to it.
I did not select Windows Live Movie Maker even though most people around the world can access that software, because it is too simplistic and not advanced enough to create satisfactory videos. Also, Movie Maker tends to be buggy, from previous experiences, since it is unable to handle larger videos and only accepts a specific file format for editing.
The problem with CyberLink PowerDirector is that it might be considered an expensive software by some, retailing at $129.99, the last seen price. So, I might switch to some freeware, considering that is something that everyone can use, without the hassle of spending money.
The advantage of learning video editing is that all documentation in the future might be in the form of videos, considering people’s dwindling attention spans and their attraction to all things online. So, video editing is always something useful to learn. My deliverable for this project will be a series of video guides on YouTube about learning video editing. I can’t go too in-depth with video editing because there is SO MUCH to learn, but I’ll try to cover the basics so that people watching my videos will have some documentation to fall back on, other than the documentation already on the internet and the one provided (or not) by the company.
